#labels Featured
<wiki:toc/>

= AES =

The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is a U.S. Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS). It was selected after a 5-year process where 15 competing designs were evaluated.

{{{
<script type="text/javascript" src="crypto-js/crypto-sha256-ofb-aes/crypto-sha256-ofb-aes.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">

var secretKey = Crypto.util.bytes_string( Crypto.SHA256("Secret Passphrase", { asBytes: true }) );

var crypted = Crypto.AES.encrypt("Hello, World!", secretKey);
var plain = Crypto.AES.decrypt(crypted, secretKey);

</script>
}}}

= Rabbit =

Rabbit is a high-performance stream cipher and a finalist in the [http://www.ecrypt.eu.org/stream/ eSTREAM Portfolio]. It was selected, along with three other algorithms, after a 3 1/2-year process where 22 designs were evaluated.

{{{
<script type="text/javascript" src="crypto-js/crypto-md5-rabbit/crypto-md5-rabbit.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">


var secretKey = Crypto.util.bytes_string( Crypto.MD5("Secret Passphrase", { asBytes: true }) );

var crypted = Crypto.Rabbit.encrypt("Hello, World!", secretKey);
var plain = Crypto.Rabbit.decrypt(crypted, secretKey);

</script>
}}}

= MARC4 (Modified Allegedly RC4) =

RC4 is a widely-used stream cipher. It's used in popular protocols such as SSL and WEP. Although RC4 is remarkable for its simplicity and speed, it has weaknesses. Crypto-JS provides a modified version that corrects these weaknesses, but the algorithm's history still doesn't inspire confidence in its security.

{{{
<script type="text/javascript" src="crypto-js/crypto-marc4/crypto-marc4.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">

var crypted = Crypto.MARC4.encrypt("Hello, World!", "Secret Passphrase");
var plain = Crypto.MARC4.decrypt(crypted, "Secret Passphrase");

</script>
}}}

= MD5 =

MD5 is a widely used hash function with a 128-bit hash value. It has been employed in a wide variety of security applications and is also commonly used to check the integrity of files. Though, MD5 is not collision resistant, and it isn't suitable for applications like SSL certificates or digital signatures that rely on this property.

{{{
<script type="text/javascript" src="crypto-js/crypto-md5/crypto-md5.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">

var digest = Crypto.MD5("Hello, World!");

</script>
}}}

= SHA-1 =

The SHA hash functions are a set of hash functions designed by the National Security Agency (NSA). SHA-1 is the best established of the existing SHA hash functions, and it's employed in several widely used security applications and protocols. Though, SHA-1's collision resistance is weakening.

{{{
<script type="text/javascript" src="crypto-js/crypto-sha1/crypto-sha1.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">

var digest = Crypto.SHA1("Hello, World!");

</script>
}}}

= SHA-256 =

The SHA hash functions are a set of hash functions designed by the National Security Agency (NSA). SHA-256 is one of the three variants in the SHA-2 set of hash functions. It isn't as widely used as SHA-1, though it appears to provide much better security.

{{{
<script type="text/javascript" src="crypto-js/crypto-sha256/crypto-sha256.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">

var digest = Crypto.SHA256("Hello, World!");

</script>
}}}